[train][doc] New checkpointing user guide (#39505)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/train/user-guides/checkpoints.rst

4. **Integration with Ray Tune:** Checkpoint saving and loading is required by certain :ref:`Ray Tune schedulers <tune-schedulers>`.

.. _train-dl-saving-checkpoints:

Saving checkpoints during training
----------------------------------

The :class:`Checkpoint <ray.train.Checkpoint>` is a lightweight interface provided
by Ray Train that represents a *directory* that exists at some ``(filesystem, path)``.

For example, a checkpoint in cloud storage would be represented by
``Checkpoint(filesystem=S3FileSystem, path="my-bucket/my-checkpoint")``.
A locally available checkpoint would be represented by
``Checkpoint(filesystem=LocalFileSystem, path="/tmp/my-checkpoint")``.

Here's how you modify your training loop to save a checkpoint in Ray Train:

1. Write your model checkpoint to a local directory.

   - Since a :class:`Checkpoint <ray.train.Checkpoint>` just points to a directory, the contents are completely up to you.
   - This means that you can use any serialization format you want.
   - This makes it **easy to use familiar checkpoint utilities provided by training frameworks**, such as
     ``torch.save``, ``pl.Trainer.save_checkpoint``, Accelerate's ``accelerator.save_model``,

>      Transformers' ``save_pretrained``, and ``tf.keras.Model.save``.

Reviewer: Nice!!

The primary configuration is keeping only the top ``K`` checkpoints with respect to a metric.
Lower-performing checkpoints are deleted to save storage space. By default, all checkpoints are kept.

.. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/key_concepts.py
    :language: python
    :start-after: __checkpoint_config_start__
    :end-before: __checkpoint_config_end__

.. note::

    If you want to save the top ``num_to_keep`` checkpoints with respect to a metric via
    :py:class:`~ray.train.CheckpointConfig`,
    please ensure that the metric is always reported together with the checkpoints.

Using checkpoints after training
--------------------------------

The latest saved checkpoint can be accessed with :attr:`Result.checkpoint <ray.train.Result.checkpoint>`.

The full list of persisted checkpoints can be accessed with :attr:`Result.best_checkpoints <ray.train.Result.best_checkpoints>`.
If :class:`CheckpointConfig(num_to_keep) <ray.train.CheckpointConfig>` is set, this list will contain the best ``num_to_keep`` checkpoints.

See :ref:`train-inspect-results` for a full guide on inspecting training results.

> :meth:`Checkpoint.as_directory <ray.train.Checkpoint.as_directory>`

Reviewer: nit: Better to have a code snippet here.

and :meth:`Checkpoint.to_directory <ray.train.Checkpoint.to_directory>`
are the two main APIs to interact with Train checkpoints.

.. _train-dl-loading-checkpoints:

Restore training state from a checkpoint
----------------------------------------

In order to enable fault tolerance, you should modify your training loop to restore
training state from a :class:`~ray.train.Checkpoint`.

The :class:`Checkpoint <ray.train.Checkpoint>` to restore from can be accessed in the
training function with :func:`ray.train.get_checkpoint <ray.train.get_checkpoint>`.

The checkpoint returned by :func:`ray.train.get_checkpoint <ray.train.get_checkpoint>` is populated in two ways:

1. It can be auto-populated as the latest reported checkpoint, e.g. for :ref:`automatic failure recovery <train-fault-tolerance>` or :ref:`on manual restoration <train-restore-guide>`.

> 2. The checkpoint can be passed to the :class:`Trainer <ray.train.trainer.BaseTrainer>` as the ``resume_from_checkpoint`` argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. It can be manually populated by passing a checkpoint to the ``resume_from_checkpoint`` argument of a Ray :class:`Trainer <ray.train.trainer.BaseTrainer>`.
```

   This is useful for initializing a new training run with a previous run's checkpoint.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: Native PyTorch

        .. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/checkpoints.py
            :language: python
            :start-after: __pytorch_restore_start__
            :end-before: __pytorch_restore_end__

    .. tab-item:: PyTorch Lightning

        .. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/checkpoints.py
            :language: python
            :start-after: __lightning_restore_example_start__
            :end-before: __lightning_restore_example_end__

.. note::

    In these examples, :meth:`Checkpoint.as_directory <ray.train.Checkpoint.as_directory>`
    is used to view the checkpoint contents as a local directory.

    *If the checkpoint points to a local directory*, this method just returns the
    local directory path without making a copy.

    *If the checkpoint points to a remote directory*, this method will download the
    checkpoint to a local temporary directory and return the path to the temporary directory.

>     **If multiple processes on the same node call this method simultaneously,**

Reviewer: Is this only guaranteed when calling as_directory inside the Ray Train training loop? Or it also works when you call it in different processes?

Author: works whenever you call in differnet processes in parallel
